# Classification-of-Movement-Disorders-M.Sc.Thesis-
M.Sc. in Biomedical Engineering Thesis where a classification of Parkinsonian tremor, Essential Tremor and Dyskinesia was made

Parkinson's disease (PD) is a disorder that causes the gradual and irreversible loss of neurons, mainly of the dopaminergic ones. It leads to several motor and non-motor symptoms, some of the first are the typical rest tremor and dyskinesia, which is characterized by random limb movements that are generally caused as a medication side effect. Essential Tremor (ET) corresponds to a monosymptomatic disorder, and it is often confused with the Parkinsonian tremor (PT), although both are not physiologically related. This work aims at distinguishing the PT, ET, and dyskinesia, using both signal processing and machine learning techniques. First, variables were chosen, based on the literature, and extracted from the collected signals, then a Principal Component Analysis (PCA) was carried out to reduce the dataset. It was observed that 95% of the variance was explained by first three components, which were then used as inputs for five machine learning models (K-Nearest Neighbours, Decision Trees, Random Forest, Naïve Bayes, Support Vector Machines) for classification purposes. DT and RF showed the highest accuracy (=1), followed by SVM (=0.9333) using the Gaussian kernel function, whereas K-NN and NB showed the lowest ones (=0.8788). In addition to the accuracy, considering also auxiliary measures (precision, recall, and F1-score), DT and RF were considered the most appropriate models for this classification task. 
